---
layout: assay
title: RNA sequencing
tags:
    - assay
browser_text: RNA sequencing files
browser_link: /files?Assay[]=RNA-seq
---

RNA sequencing is performed on all HipSci iPS cell lines that are selected for banking
after passing QC. Sequencing and primary analysis are performed at the
Wellcome Trust Sanger Institue.

##Primary analysis

HipSci's RNA-seq analysis pipeline is to 
map sequence reads to the human GRCh37 reference using the
[STAR spliced aligner](https://github.com/alexdobin/STAR). The mapping uses
version 19 of the Gencode gene annotation to enable splice-aware alignments.


##Getting the data

Complete lists of exome-seq data can be found under the files tab of
the [cell lines and data browser]({{'/lines/#' | append: page.browser_link | prepend: site.baseurl}})
or in the dataset indexes on the [FTP site](ftp://ftp.hipsci.ebi.ac.uk/vol1/ftp/archive_datasets/).

* [Raw sequencing reads]({{'/lines/#/files?Assay[]=RNA-seq&Description[]=Raw%20sequencing%20reads' | prepend: site.baseurl }})
-- Distributed in the cram file format. Any cell line
can have multiple associated cram files; each corresponds to a single lane of sequencing.
* [Splice-aware STAR alignment]({{'/lines/#/files?Assay[]=Exome-seq&Description[]=Splice-aware%20STAR%20alignment' | prepend: site.baseurl }})
-- Distributed in the bam file format.  We distribute one bam file per cell line.

For [managed access]({% post_url 1111-11-11-access %}#managed%}) cell lines, RNA-seq
files are archived in the [EGA](https://www.ebi.ac.uk/ega/). The
[data browser]({{'/lines/#' | append: page.browser_link | prepend: site.baseurl}}) contains
links to the relevant EGA dataset page, from where researchers can request access to the data.

For [open access]({% post_url 1111-11-11-access %}#open) cell lines, RNA-seq files
are archived in [ENA](http://www.ebi.ac.uk/ena/data/view/ERP007111). Data are openly available
to anybody, and the [data browser]({{'/lines/#' | append: page.browser_link | prepend: site.baseurl}})
contains direct links to the files on the ENA FTP server.


##Resources

HipSci's FTP site contains:

* The [reference genome](ftp://ftp.hipsci.ebi.ac.uk/vol1/ftp/reference/) used for alignment
* The [Gencode gene annotations](ftp://ftp.hipsci.ebi.ac.uk/vol1/ftp/reference/) used for splice-aware
alignment.
