---
layout: data
title: Open access and managed access data
tags:
    - data
nav: true
---

This page describes the classification of HipSci data as open access or managed access.
The following statements are guidelines only. We have policy documents
describing how to manage these data types. Contact [hipsci-dcc@ebi.ac.uk](mailto:hipsci-dcc@ebi.ac.uk) for
information.


###Individually unique data

Data which are uniquely linkable to the sample donor. In particular, data comprising genetic information is classed as individually unique.

Individually unique data can be subject to managed-access restrictions, depending on the consent signed by the sample donor.

Examples of individually unique data are:

* Genotypes called from genotyping array or exome-seq
* Sequencing data from exome-seq or RNA-seq

###Non-unique data

Data which are not uniquely linkable to the sample donor. All of HipSci's non-unique data can be distributed openly; they are not subject to managed-access restrictions.

Examples of non-unique data are:

* Transcript expression quantifications from RNA-seq
* Proteomics mass spectrometry
* Cellular phenotyping measurements

###Managed access data

The consent agreement of some HipSci donors authorises release of individually unique data
only for specific research use to bona fide researchers.
'Managed access data' refers to individually unique data from these donors.

Managed access data are store in the [EGA](http://www.ebi.ac.uk/ega) archive.
For access to
these data, researchers must read the Data Access Agreement document ([pdf]({{site.baseurl}}/documents/HipSci_Normals_DAA_v3.2_form.pdf), [doc]({{site.baseurl}}/documents/HipSci_Normals_DAA_v3.2_form.doc)) and
register for access via WTSI's [Electronic Data Access Mechanism](https://www.sanger.ac.uk/legal/DAA/MasterController).

###Open access data

The consent agreement of some HipSci donors authorises release of individually unique data
to all parties, with no requirement to satisfy any data access restrictions.

'Open access data' refers to:

1. Non-unique data from any donor
2. Individually unique data from donors who have consented to unrestricted data release.

###Chromosome Y

Individually unique data (i.e. genotypes) from the male chromosome Y are
classed as managed access data for all HipSci donors. This includes donors
whose consent agreement allows the free distribution of genotype data from
other chromosomes.

Y chromosome data have been stripped from any file containing genetic data in any open access data archives.

##Access status in the data browser

Cells lines in the [HipSci data browser]({{site.baseurl}}/lines) are marked
with their access status. Cell lines can be filtered by access status using the filter options.

* [Managed access]({{site.baseurl}}/lines?Data%20Access[]=Managed%20access)
* [Open access]({{site.baseurl}}/lines?Data%20Access[]=Open%20access)
