---
layout: mdpage
title: A high-content platform to characterise human induced pluripotent stem cell lines
pub_ref: "*Methods* 96, 85-96 (2016)"
pub_authors: Andreas Leha, Nathalie Moens, Ruta Meleckyte, Oliver J. Culley, Mia K. Gervasio, Maximilian Kerz, Andreas Reimer, Stuart A. Cain, Ian Streeter, Amos Folarin, Oliver Stegle, Cay M. Kielty, HipSci Consortium, Richard Durbin, Fiona M. Watt, Davide Danovi
tags:
    - publication
---

{{page.pub_authors}}

[{{page.pub_ref}}](http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1046202315301535)

###Abstract

Induced pluripotent stem cells (iPSCs) provide invaluable opportunities for
future cell therapies as well as for studying human development, modelling
diseases and discovering therapeutics. In order to realise the potential of
iPSCs, it is crucial to comprehensively characterise cells generated from large
cohorts of healthy and diseased individuals. The human iPSC initiative (HipSci)
is assessing a large panel of cell lines to define cell phenotypes, dissect
inter- and intra-line and donor variability and identify its key determinant
components. Here we report the establishment of a high-content platform for
phenotypic analysis of human iPSC lines. In the described assay, cells are
dissociated and seeded as single cells onto 96-well plates coated with
fibronectin at three different concentrations. This method allows assessment of
cell number, proliferation, morphology and intercellular adhesion. Altogether,
our strategy delivers robust quantification of phenotypic diversity within
complex cell populations facilitating future identification of the genetic,
biological and technical determinants of variance. Approaches such as the one
described can be used to benchmark iPSCs from multiple donors and create novel
platforms that can readily be tailored for disease modelling and drug
discovery.
