---
layout: mdpage
title: "iPS cells for Rare disease cases: call for proposals"
---


The Human Induced Pluripotent Stem Cell initiative (HipSci), funded by the
Wellcome Trust and the MRC, aims to generate iPS cells from healthy volunteers
and patients with genetic disease. The project collaborators aim to generate
over a thousand iPS cell lines, on which they will conduct extensive genetic
analysis, and characterise how the cells respond to specific external stimuli.

The resulting cell collection and data-set will be the UK’s most comprehensive
resource for investigating how genetic variation impacts on cell behaviour and
how diseases linked to a specific genetic defect can result in a broad spectrum
of clinical abnormalities. The project is led by King’s College London and the
Wellcome Trust Sanger Institute.  Further information is available at
www.hipsci.org.

We are seeking clinicians (or scientists with access to relevant patient cases)
to provide samples from patients with inherited genetic diseases for the
disease component of the HipSci project.  We request that samples are provided
in groups of between 10 and 50 with related phenotypes, and that all samples
already have the genetic defect identified (the aim is to support gene analysis
rather than gene discovery), with typically multiple cases with defects in the
same gene.   We encourage clinicians/scientists with only small numbers of
samples to form larger groups with others who can contribute similar cases.  

Sample providers will receive back the iPSC produced to allow them to work with
their cell lines, but the lines will also be available via a stem cell bank
under an MTA to others for research purposes, either in academia or industry.
We are in the process of obtaining overarching ethics permission for the
genetic disease component of the study, so that contributing
clinicians/scientists will only need to provide Site Specific Information for
their samples. 

If you wish to submit a proposal or have any questions please email
[hipsci-proposal@ebi.ac.uk](mailto:hipsci-proposal@ebi.ac.uk)
[HipSci Rare Disease Call for Proposals PDF]({{site.baseurl}}/documents/HipSci_Rare_call_for_proposals_March2014.pdf)

