---
layout: default
title: Data reuse policy
permalink: /data/policy/
---

###Use of the HipSci Project data

HipSci project data are being released early, prior to their publication, in 
the expectation that they will be valuable for many researchers. In keeping 
with [Fort Lauderdale principles](http://www.genome.gov/Pages/Research/WellcomeReport0303.pdf), data users may 
use the data for many studies, but are expected to allow the data producers to 
make the first presentations and to publish the first papers with global 
analyses of the data.

###Global analyses of Project data

The HipSci project will publish global analyses of the sequence data and
quality, SNPs, transcript expression, DNA methylation and proteomics, including
genetic studies of these.  Talks, posters, and papers on all such analyses are
to be published first by the HipSci Consortium, by approved presenters on
behalf of the Project, with the Consortium as author.  After the HipSci
consortium has published analyses, then researchers inside and outside the
Project are free to present and publish using the Project data for these
analyses.

###Methods development using Project data

Researchers who have used small amounts of Project data (<= one chromosome) may 
present methods development posters, talks, and papers that include these data 
prior to the first major HipSci Project paper, without needing Project 
approval or authorship, although the Project should be acknowledged. Methods 
presentations or papers on global analyses or analyses using large amounts of 
Project data, on topics that the Consortium plans to examine, would be similar 
to large-scale analyses of Project data: researchers within the Project may 
make presentations or submit papers at the same time as the main Project 
presentations and papers, and others could do so after the Project publishes 
analysis papers.

###Population comparisons using Project data

Researchers may use Project data as controls or additional information for 
comparisons with their samples from other populations, prior to the major 
Project paper being published, as long as the analyses that the Project plans 
to do are not included. These are not Project studies, and the Project should 
not be listed as an author.

###Permission and acknowledgements

Researchers who have questions about whether they may make presentations or 
submit papers using Project data, or whether to include the HipSci Consortium 
as an author, may contact [hipsci@ebi.ac.uk](mailto:hipsci@ebi.ac.uk).

The HipSci project should be acknowledged in publications and posters with the 
following text:

This study makes use of data generated by the HipSci Consortium, funded by The Wellcome Trust and the MRC.

