---
layout: disease
title: Monogenic diabetes
nav_description: A disease cohort contributed by Exeter Medical School
tags: 
    - disease
browser_text: Cell lines from <i>monogenic diabetes</i> donors
browser_link: /lines?Disease%20Status[]=Monogenic%20diabetes
---

HipSci has generated iPS cell lines from donors diagnosed with monogenic diabetes.
Exeter Medical School contributed the tissue samples to the HipSci project.

####[Orphanet 224](http://www.orpha.net/consor/cgi-bin/OC_Exp.php?Lng=GB&Expert=224)
> Neonatal diabetes mellitus presents as hyperglycemia, failure to thrive
> and, in some cases, dehydration and ketoacidosis which may be severe with
> coma, in a child within the first months of life. Transient (TNDM) and
> Permanent (PNDM) neonatal diabetes are rare conditions occurring in
> 1:300,000-400,000 live births. TNDM infants develop diabetes in the first
> few weeks of life but go into remission in a few months, with possible
> relapse to a permanent diabetes state usually around adolescence or as
> adults. The pancreatic dysfunction may be maintained throughout life, with
> relapse initiated at times of metabolic stress such as puberty or
> pregnancy. Patients with TNDM are more likely to have intrauterine growth
> retardation and less likely to develop ketoacidosis than patients with
> PNDM. In TNDM, patients are younger at the diagnosis of diabetes and have
> lower initial insulin requirements. In PNDM, insulin secretory failure
> occurs in the late fetal or early post-natal period and does not go into
> remission. Considerable overlap occurs between the two groups, so that TNDM
> cannot be distinguished from PNDM based on clinical features. Very early
> onset diabetes mellitus seems to be unrelated to autoimmunity in most
> instances. A number of conditions are associated with PNDM, some of which
> have been elucidated at the molecular level. Among these, the very recently
> elucidated mutations in the KCNJ11 and ABCC8 genes, encoding the Kir6.2 and
> SUR1 subunit of the pancreatic KATP channel involved in regulation of
> insulin secretion, account for one third to half of the PNDM cases.
> Molecular analysis of chromosome 6 anomalies, and the KCNJ11 and ABCC8
> genes encoding Kir6.2 and SUR1, provides a tool to identify TNDM from PNDM
> in the neonatal period. This analysis also has potentially important
> therapeutic consequences leading to transfer some patients, those with
> mutations in KCNJ11 and ABCC8 genes, from insulin therapy to sulfonylureas.
> Recurrent diabetes is common in patients with 'transient' neonatal
> diabetes mellitus and, consequently, prolonged follow-up is imperative.
> Insulin pump may offer an interesting therapeutic tool in this age group in
> experienced hands.
